My ultimate goal as a lawyer and law professor is to extract **reasoning patterns** from **legal documents**, in order to use them to formulate better **arguments** in future cases.

A document begins as plain text. We add to this **semantic** markup or annotation, which adds layers of meaning to specific spans of text. Such annotation helps to make meaning explicit, in a way that is also available for computation.

For _legal documents_, the meaning that lawyers understand is legal in nature. Words and phrases may have different meanings than their non-legal uses, and statements made with sentences or clauses might have distinctive implications in law. Moreover, the same words, phrases, clauses, sentences, and sets of sentences may have varying significance, depending upon the legal context. We can capture these many layers of meaning through "**legal semantic analysis**."

Lawyers learn how to interpret the _legal significance_ of a document through law school and experience. When they read a court decision, for example, they appreciate layers of meaning that would be unknown to many non-legal readers. Moreover, lawyers can read the same document differently, depending upon their purpose or goal. A lawyer looking for arguments to make in a new case reads court decisions in a way geared toward identifying successful and unsuccessful arguments in those decided cases.

How can artificial intelligence (AI) help such a lawyer? First, **AI analytics** can locate and retrieve _similar cases_ that addressed the same legal issues with similar types of evidence. Second, AI analytics can _automatically annotate_ those retrieved decisions, drawing the lawyer's attention to those groups of sentences that show the relevant reasoning. Finally, AI analytics can even recommend to the lawyer ways to _develop new arguments_ for the lawyer's new case, based on those reported cases.

Such AI analytics are under development, incorporating an ever-expanding suite of tools, such as _deep machine learning_ and _word embeddings_. Such technologies are powerful, but also under-utilized. The biggest barrier today is not our technology, but our understanding of what we are looking for - the layers of legal meaning that lawyers "see" when they read legal documents. What we need is better legal semantic analysis that is geared toward AI applications. This GitHub repo is dedicated to **developing such a better legal semantic analysis**.
